Data science is a special field of science that applies scientific methods, processes and systems to
extract knowledge or a better understanding from data in different forms.
It is a very broad science.
So in this section we do not intend to teach data science, but how to apply Python to data science.
For that, we are going to dedicate this day to learn about three Python libraries that are a world
standard in data analysis and visualization.
And these are numpy pandas and map plot lib.
NumPy, which stands for numerical python, is the default mode for doing numerical operations efficiently,
even with monstrous amounts of data and in a very short time.
PANDAS is a library used to manipulate and analyze data in Python.
It is built on top of NumPy.
So many features are similar.
We will use pandas to work with data sets that are structured in rows and columns.
That's why PANDAS is known as Python's Excel.
And we complement all this with Matt Plot Lib.
The preferred library for creating charts in Python data visualization through graphics and data science
is a very important part.
It plays a role in communicating information visually, which can come from tables of millions and millions
of rows while allowing us to better understand our data in ways that we could not do so by reading a
table.
When we finish learning about these tools, the icing on the cake will come.
We are going to be able to apply everything we have learned to build a data model known as machine learning.
This refers to a branch of artificial intelligence that consists of training our computer so that it
is able to predict the outcome of new cases based on its experiences with provided data.
This particular project that we are going to create today consists of a module that will receive the
database of passengers of the famous Titanic based on the analysis of who survived and who did not.
This module will be able to identify which characteristics are the most favorable or unfavorable to
survive the sinking ship and even predict whether new passengers would be able to survive or not if
we put them their science fiction, right?
Not at all.
This is science in action, and you will put it all into action yourself, starting with the following
video.